# Analysis Assignment 1: Evaluating LDSD Doctrine and History
1.
  I think this doctrine is a level 3 doctrine (united statements under the signature/approval of the 1st presidency and/or the Quorum of the 12). I was somewhat torn between calling it level 2 or level 3 doctrine, because of Elder McConkie and J Reuben Clark's statements - if the united voice of the first presidency was behind this doctrine, then why would these statements exist? My conclusion was drawn from a few factors. Firstly, these books are not official church publications. Secondly, each mention of this doctrine in general conference has been in support of Christ's birth being April 6th. Finally, our gospel is living and changing with revelation. The most recent account, given in general conference by Elder David A. Bednar states confidently that "we" (the Church / the 1st presidency / the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles) know the doctrine to be true. So while earlier accounts of uncertainty in the matter could have been true at the time, they do not discredit new revelation.

2.
  Primary Source: Partial (1). Because John Alger said he personally experienced this, and is now retelling that story, I'd call this a secondary source (from the perspective of those in the congregation). Contemporary account: No (0). He didn't record the event at all, it's just something he is remembering, which can be highly unreliable. It is a "later reminiscence". Objective perspective: Yes (2). There isn't any benefit I can see to this man lying about his experience. I believe he was as objective as anybody could be. Relationship to other sources: No (0). There are no other accounts I found that mention the same story as the one told by Alger. Supporting evidence: No (0). The specifics of the event are not backed up by any other facts or records (except of course for the fact that the vision did happen). Overall: 3
