(1) Some people have criticized the Three Witnesses because they all left the Church (as did some of the Eight Witnesses).  Some critics have said that eyewitnesses testimony is unreliable.  Others have said that because the Three Witnesses experienced a vision where they saw an angle their experience wasn't real and can't be believed. Yet others have said that Joseph Smith just manufactured a set of plates and showed those to the Eight witnesses, but it doesn't prove anything. If someone brought up one of these criticisms to you, how would you respond? Choose at least ONE of the arguments above and provide your thoughts (at least one paragraph).

(2) As we conclude this unit on the Book of Mormon, pick TWO questions below you feel most comfortable writing about and answer them (two or three paragraphs).
* What experiences have you had with the Book of Mormon that have helped you to know its truthfulness?
* What interests you most about the Book of Mormon? What concepts, chapters, ideas, etc?
* If someone asked you to share your beliefs about the Book of Mormon, how would you answer, and why?  
* Why do you think the Book of Mormon has such a large impact on the Church and on members/converts?
* Why do you think God initiated the Restoration by bringing forward a book of scripture?
* What do you think can be done to better share the messages and content and teachings of the Book of Mormon with others? What are some novel or needed approaches?


### (1 response)
Criticism(s) to respond to:
* Eyewitnesses testimony is unreliable.
* Because the Three Witnesses experienced a vision where they saw an angel their experience wasn't real and can't be believed.

	I'd like to first address the eyewitness testimony being unreliable. While I don't know exactly how long the written testimony of the 3 witnesses was recorded, it's a contemporary account of what happened. To say that any eyewitness testimony is unreliable - sure, that's true. And memory changes over time. But the testimony was not a testimony of exactly **how** the event happened. It's a testimony that it *did* happen, and *why*. It may not have gone down exactly as it was recorded, but this doesn't change the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon.
	I'd secondly like to those who would say that because the 3 witnesses received testimony through a vision, it can't be believed. Firstly, anything can be believed, so the claim itself is flawed. Someone with this perspective is really just trying to say that they don't think it's possible for an angel to visit somebody in the way described by the witnesses. To this I say, yeah sure I get it, but that's where faith comes in. You can make this argument about nearly any topic in Church doctrine. You could say it's unbelievable that God can talk to us and help us through prayer. You could say it's unbelievable that there is a God at all, or an afterlife, a heaven or a hell. To say something is without a doubt impossible is a naive way to view the world. Just because you don't believe it now doesn't mean it's *unbelievable*. It takes time, effort, and humility to develop a testimony of something that the reasonable and temporally grounded side of somebody would say is impossible. By no means, however, does it make it unbelievable.


### (2 response)
Questions to answer:
* What experiences have you had with the Book of Mormon that have helped you to know of its truthfulness?
* Why do you think the Book of Mormon has such a large impact on the Church and on members/converts?

Question 1:
	When I was younger I was very unsuccessful in completing the goal my parents set for me which was to read the Book of Mormon every day. In hindsight, I wish I had done it more, but only to the end that it helped me better understand why I should. God gives us agency and wishes us to use it. I say it's better to do the wrong thing fully believing that it's right, than the right thing just because somebody else told you to. God says he wants us to be hot or cold; lukewarm and he'll spit us out. For me, this relates to learning and developing a testimony of various parts of the Gospel, including the Book of Mormon. When I first was told to read the Book of Mormon by my parents, I knew why people said to do it, but I didn't understand why I specifically should do it. In recent years, as my testimony grew I learned that God wants me to read the Book of Mormon. I still didn't quite understand why but my testimony was developed enough to know that God wants the best for me. So as I worked to develop a habit of reading the scriptures, I began to understand and see the blessings of it in my life. I read from the introduction that I could get closer to God by reading the Book of Mormon than I could by any other book. I saw this happen in my life as I disciplined myself in scripture study. Reading the Book of Mormon improves my mood and my ability to show my love for my fellow people. Even if I don't remember anything I read one day, I still remember the joy and spirit it brought me.
	Furthermore, as my testimony has grown, I have become more open to feeling the Spirit. I read that the spirit is manifested wherever and whenever truth is spoken. This has been one of the main ways I've received confirmation of truths in the Book of Mormon and from teachings of the prophets and apostles. Before I read, I pray to have the Spirit with me. And as I read, I feel the spirit manifest itself - sometimes distinctly with certain lines and sometimes just as a general feeling, but I know it's there. I haven't had any crazy visions or anything, but I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that it's true because of my experiences with it every day.

Question 2:
	The Book of Mormon is the center of not just out gospel doctrine, but also of testimony. All testimonies of the gospel stem from a testimony of the Book of Mormon. If one believes in the Book of Mormon, then they can believe that it must have been brought for a divine purpose and by divine translation. If they believe this they can believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet. If they believe this, they can believe that each and every prophet since has been authorized to be so. I say "can" believe because everybody is working on their own personal testimony. But it always starts with the Book of Mormon. It is the keystone of our religion. Also, as I said before, it brings people close to God.
